Open XDMoD
==========

XDMoD (XSEDE Metrics on Demand) is an NSF-funded open source tool
designed to audit and facilitate the utilization of the XSEDE
cyberinfrastructure by providing a wide range of metrics on XSEDE
resources, including resource utilization, resource performance, and
impact on scholarship and research.
The [XDMoD](https://xdmod.ccr.buffalo.edu/) framework is designed to
meet the following objectives: (1) provide the user community with a
tool to manage their allocations and optimize their resource
utilization, (2) provide operational staff with the ability to monitor
and tune resource performance, (3) provide management with a tool to
monitor utilization, user base, and performance of resources, and (4)
provide metrics to help measure scientific impact.  While initially
focused on the XSEDE program, Open XDMoD has been created to be
adaptable to any HPC environment.

The framework includes a computationally lightweight application kernel
auditing system that utilizes performance kernels chosen from both
low-level benchmarks and actual scientific and engineering applications
to measure overall system performance from the userâ€™s perspective.  This
allows continuous resource monitoring to measure all aspects of system
performance including file-system, processor, and memory performance,
and network latency and bandwidth.  Current and past utilization
metrics, coupled with application kernel-based performance analysis, can
be used to help guide future cyberinfrastructure investment decisions,
plan system upgrades, tune machine performance, improve user job
throughput, and facilitate routine system operation and maintenance.

This work was sponsored by NSF under grant number OCI 1025159 for the
development of technology audit service for XSEDE.

**NOTE**: Not all of the XDMoD features mentioned above are currently
available in Open XDMoD.

For more information, questions, or feedback send email to
`ccr-xdmod-help` at `buffalo.edu`.

Want to be notified about XDMoD releases and news? Subscribe to our
[listserv](http://listserv.buffalo.edu/cgi-bin/wa?SUBED1=ccr-xdmod-list&A=1).

License
-------
Open XDMoD is an open source project released under the
[GNU Lesser General Public License ("LGPL") Version 3.0][lgpl3].

[lgpl3]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.txt

